README.md, before:

# Microchip Curiosity Nano Examples   

My experiments, snippets and documents about some [Microchip Curiosity Nano](https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/8-bit/development-tools/pic-hardware/curiosity-nano-development-platform) boards I use for my projects or for learning. Actually there are examples for following Nano Boards:
- 16F18446 (*)
- 16F15376
- 18F57Q43

_(*) For my experiments I used the old "MPLAB Xpress PIC16F18446" now that board is called "PIC16F18446 Curiosity Nano" : debugger pinout is different!!!_  
 
### Powering Curiosity Nano 
#### Running at 5 or 3.3V 
By default Curiosity nano runs at 3.3V when powered from USB: there is a software controlled variable regulator on board that generates the VTG (_V Target_). If you want to run the board @5V when you power it from USB you must change a parameter in the project configuration:  

- Right click on project in <kbd>Projects</kbd> tree and select <kbd>Properties</kbd>
- in <kbd>Categories</kbd> box on the left, select <kbd>PKOB Nano</kbd>
- in <kbd>Option Categories</kbd> dropdown box, on the right, select <kbd>Power</kbd>
- check the <kbd>Power target circuit</kbd> checkbox
- write <kbd>5</kbd> in the blank field <kbd>Voltage level</kbd>
- press <kbd>OK</kbd>   

The project property will be changed and will be active the next time you'll program the board. Voltage change is permanent, so there is no need to keep this setting every-time for every project: be careful. This setting, obviously, only affect the V Target when you power the board from USB. Following picture illustrates where this setting is located:   

![VTG modification](assets/images/changing_Vtarget.png)  

#### Powering from external 
If you want to power the board from the external instead of USB, you must tie to GND the pin `VOFF`: it's the second pin on the right, starting from top, having the USB connector on top: this will disable the on board regulator. After you've tied `VOFF` to GND you can power the board on the pin `VTG`: it's the sixth pin on the right, starting from top, having the USB connector on top. The voltage you apply will not be affected by the modification explained above. 5V is the maximum allowed.   

![Curiosity Nano Debugger Pinout](assets/images/curiosity_nano_standard_debugger_pinout.png)   

**WARNING**: if you use the old PIC16F18446 revision (Called _MPLAB Xpress PIC16F18446_) there is no `VOFF` pin (notice that the debug header has fewer pins) and you must cut some traces below the board for powering from external, please refer to old documents in the [assets](./assets) folder

### Usage of certain pins  
Following infos are for the PIC16F15376 Curiosity Nano.  
- `RCO` and `RC1`: Normally, those pins are not routed from edge connector to PIC MCU, so if you would to use them, put a solder blob on pads on the bottom of the board marked as `RC0` - `RC1`. They're not connected since you can choose to use them for the Secondary Oscillator (`SOSC`) soldering a 32768Hz Crystal on top.
- `RB6` and `RB7`: Those pins are not shown on the silkscreen. They are used by the debugger (`DBG1/ICSPCLK` and `DBG0/ICSPDAT respectively`), maybe is safe to use if you disconnect them first than programming
- `RD0` and `RD1`: are shared with USB CDC and used by debugger, they appears on the silkscreen. `EUSART2` can use those pins, so if you want to redirect serial communication over USB configure the EUSART2 for using `UART TX` on `RD0` and `UART RX` on `RD1`.
- `RE0`: is connected to `LED` anode (pin low = led ON).
- `RE2`: is connected to `DGB2` Debugger pin and shared with `SW0`. `RE2` marking does not appear on silkscreen
- `RE3`: this pin is shared with `MCLR` and is connected with `DBG3` debugger pin. `RE3` marking does not appear on silkscreen

### Links
- My Simple (italian) [tutorial about Curiosity Nano and MPLAB Code Configurator](https://www.settorezero.com/wordpress/curiosity-nano-code-configurator-per-entrare-nel-mondo-dei-microcontrollori-pic-senza-sforzo-e-in-economia/)
- All my [articles about PIC MCU programming](https://www.settorezero.com/wordpress/programmazione_microcontrollori_pic_microchip/)
- [Microchip Curiosity Nano Portfolio](https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/8-bit/development-tools/pic-hardware/curiosity-nano-development-platform)

Commit message:

added pinouts and 'pinouts' document

README.md, after:

# Microchip Curiosity Nano Examples   

My experiments, snippets and documents about some [Microchip Curiosity Nano](https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/8-bit/development-tools/pic-hardware/curiosity-nano-development-platform) boards I use for my projects or for learning. Actually there are examples for following Nano Boards:  

- 16F18446 (*)
- 16F15376
- 18F57Q43

_(*) For my experiments I used the old "MPLAB Xpress PIC16F18446 Evaluation Board" now that board is called "PIC16F18446 Curiosity Nano" : debugger pinout is different!!!_  

For Datasheets and Documents, please take a look in the [assets](./assets) folder.  
I've put all boards pinout in the [pinouts](./assets/pinouts.md) document.  
 
### Powering Curiosity Nano 
#### Running at 5 or 3.3V 
By default Curiosity nano runs at 3.3V when powered from USB: there is a software controlled variable regulator on board that generates the VTG (_V Target_). If you want to run the board @5V when you power it from USB you must change a parameter in the project configuration:  

- Right click on project in <kbd>Projects</kbd> tree and select <kbd>Properties</kbd>
- in <kbd>Categories</kbd> box on the left, select <kbd>PKOB Nano</kbd>
- in <kbd>Option Categories</kbd> dropdown box, on the right, select <kbd>Power</kbd>
- check the <kbd>Power target circuit</kbd> checkbox
- write <kbd>5</kbd> in the blank field <kbd>Voltage level</kbd>
- press <kbd>OK</kbd>   

The project property will be changed and will be active the next time you'll program the board. Voltage change is permanent, so there is no need to keep this setting every-time for every project: be careful. This setting, obviously, only affect the V Target when you power the board from USB. Following picture illustrates where this setting is located:   

![VTG modification](assets/images/changing_Vtarget.png)  

#### Powering from external 
If you want to power the board from the external instead of USB, you must tie to GND the pin `VOFF`: it's the second pin on the right, starting from top, having the USB connector on top: this will disable the on board regulator. After you've tied `VOFF` to GND you can power the board on the pin `VTG`: it's the sixth pin on the right, starting from top, having the USB connector on top. The voltage you apply will not be affected by the modification explained above. 5V is the maximum allowed.   

![Curiosity Nano Debugger Pinout](assets/images/curiosity_nano_standard_debugger_pinout.png)   

**WARNING**: if you use the old PIC16F18446 revision (Called _MPLAB Xpress PIC16F18446 Evaluation Board_) there is no `VOFF` pin (notice that this debug header has fewer pins!) and you must cut some traces below the board for powering from external, please refer to old documents in the [assets](./assets) folder and to the [pinouts](./assets/pinouts.md) document.

### Usage of certain pins  
Following infos are for the PIC16F15376 Curiosity Nano.  
- `RCO` and `RC1`: Normally, those pins are not routed from edge connector to PIC MCU, so if you would to use them, put a solder blob on pads on the bottom of the board marked as `RC0` - `RC1`. They're not connected since you can choose to use them for the Secondary Oscillator (`SOSC`) soldering a 32768Hz Crystal on top.
- `RB6` and `RB7`: Those pins are not shown on the silkscreen. They are used by the debugger (`DBG1/ICSPCLK` and `DBG0/ICSPDAT respectively`), maybe is safe to use if you disconnect them first than programming
- `RD0` and `RD1`: are shared with USB CDC and used by debugger, they appears on the silkscreen. `EUSART2` can use those pins, so if you want to redirect serial communication over USB configure the EUSART2 for using `UART TX` on `RD0` and `UART RX` on `RD1`.
- `RE0`: is connected to `LED` anode (pin low = led ON).
- `RE2`: is connected to `DGB2` Debugger pin and shared with `SW0`. `RE2` marking does not appear on silkscreen
- `RE3`: this pin is shared with `MCLR` and is connected with `DBG3` debugger pin. `RE3` marking does not appear on silkscreen

### Links
- My Simple (italian) [tutorial about Curiosity Nano and MPLAB Code Configurator](https://www.settorezero.com/wordpress/curiosity-nano-code-configurator-per-entrare-nel-mondo-dei-microcontrollori-pic-senza-sforzo-e-in-economia/)
- All my [articles about PIC MCU programming](https://www.settorezero.com/wordpress/programmazione_microcontrollori_pic_microchip/)
- [Microchip Curiosity Nano Portfolio](https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/8-bit/development-tools/pic-hardware/curiosity-nano-development-platform)
