16F15376_Curiosity_Nano_I2C_ADXL345.X/README.md, before:

# ADXL345 I2C demo

### What this example does:
- Read an ADXL345 accelerometer using I2C libraries generated by MPLAB Code Configurator. Axis output is on a 7-segment display driven by a [MAX7219](https://github.com/Cyb3rn0id/MAX7219sz_PIC_lib) and on the UART.

### Notes:
- SW0 is used to cycle single axe visualizazion on display
- Board is configured for working at 3.3V
- Accelerometer is powered Is mandatory from VTG pin (3.3V)
- MAX7219 is powered from VBUS pin. If you want to use only UART, simply do not connect anytighing to MAX7219 ports
- UART configured at 9600-N-8-1

### System settings:
- system clock: 32MHz

### Connections

| Function     | PIC16F15376 Curiosity Nano pin |
|:-------------|:-------------------------------|
|SCL           |RC3                             |
|SDA           |RC4                             |
|MAX7219 data  |RC0                             |
|MAX7219 clock |RC1                             |
|MAX7219 latch |RC2                             |

### Schematic
![Schematic](documents/schematic.png)

### Link
[I2C libraries generated by MCC explained](https://www.settorezero.com/wordpress/utilizzo-librerie-i2c-generate-dall-mplab-code-configurator-lettura-accelerometro/). Article is in italian language but there is an automatic translation plugin that will translate the page in your language without your intervention.

Commit message:

moved images to 'images' folder

16F15376_Curiosity_Nano_I2C_ADXL345.X/README.md, after:

# ADXL345 I2C demo

### What this example does:
- Read an ADXL345 accelerometer using I2C libraries generated by MPLAB Code Configurator. Axis output is on a 7-segment display driven by a [MAX7219](https://github.com/Cyb3rn0id/MAX7219sz_PIC_lib) and on the UART.

### Notes:
- SW0 is used to cycle single axe visualizazion on display
- Board is configured for working at 3.3V
- Accelerometer is powered Is mandatory from VTG pin (3.3V)
- MAX7219 is powered from VBUS pin. If you want to use only UART, simply do not connect anytighing to MAX7219 ports
- UART configured at 9600-N-8-1

### System settings:
- system clock: 32MHz

### Connections

| Function     | PIC16F15376 Curiosity Nano pin |
|:-------------|:-------------------------------|
|SCL           |RC3                             |
|SDA           |RC4                             |
|MAX7219 data  |RC0                             |
|MAX7219 clock |RC1                             |
|MAX7219 latch |RC2                             |

### Schematic
![Schematic](documents/schematic.png)

### Documents 
In the [documents folder](documents/) in this same folder, there are schematic in Eagle format and accelerometer datasheet

### Link
[I2C libraries generated by MCC explained](https://www.settorezero.com/wordpress/utilizzo-librerie-i2c-generate-dall-mplab-code-configurator-lettura-accelerometro/). Article is in italian language but there is an automatic translation plugin that will translate the page in your language without your intervention.
